Added complexity but (in theory) better results:
-PVA -or- multi-modal (run various possibilities and choose one w/ lowest residual)
--are these two methods orthagonal?
-assumption we're in plane defined by last three non-colinear positions


problems:

not rejecting real outlier because of override
switching to LinLS when not necessary

simulator facelift
-stimulus files for batchmode?
-log/event output files?


if detect bad state, only switch to LinLS model IF its residuals for last measurement are better than yours

if you are pathologically rejecting measurements then you will "diverge" since you step according to your idea of the velocity










    if rand(1) < .025
        % feed in outlier
        z(1,beac_chirp) = normrnd(getrealdist(beac_chirp,c,x(1,1:3))+100,50^2);
    else
        % feed in gaussian-distributed error
        z(1,beac_chirp) = normrnd(getrealdist(beac_chirp,c,x(1,1:3)),1);
    end

(above)[Q(4,:,:) R(4,:) P(4,:,:) G(4,:,:) D(4,:) U(4,:,:) bufsize(4) chireject(4) chisuspect(4) chiPRbuffersize(4) chiBEbuffersize(4) chiPRratio(4) chiBEratio(4) modeltype(4) R0(4) Rstep(4)] = populate_PVmodel_standard(m,dT,14.3301,1,40,20,10,10,.4,.4,PVmodel_standard,9.08,.05);%9,3.5,15,15,0.4,0.4,PVmodel_standard,9.08,.05);








































# J. Vaganay, J. J. Leonard, and J. G. Bellingham. Outlier Rejection for Autonomous Acoustic Navigation. 
In Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2174-2181, Minneapolis, Minnesota, April, 1996.


Tsay, R. S. (1988). "Outliers, Level Shifts, and Variance
Changes in Time Series." Journal of Forecasting, 7: 1-20.





"The EKF filter is a little smarter and uses its current state estimate and uncertainty
to identify that the current crop of observations are not mutually consistent either with
themselves or with the last state estimate (a common technique in Kalman filtering).
However having detected that at least one of the current sensor measurement makes no
sense it employs geometric projective techniques to identify the true outlier."
(uses listener as chirper scheme)
(runs GPS, LSQ, and EKF)
"Robustness --- A poorly tuned/setup EKF can diverge - that is, produce a state estimate
so far from the truth and with sufficient confidence that it rejects all incoming
sensor data. There is no reason that this should happen given the data rejection
schemes employed, however navigation is stochastic and unlikely things will hap-
pen given time. A deployed system should be robust to such occurrences and the
checking of estimates against the LSQ filter offers one (of several employed) way
to do this. If the estimates emerging from the LSQ differ significantly from those
emerging from the EKF over a sustained interval pNav takes the EKF off-line and
attempts to re-initialize it to the LSQ estimates. We require a lack of consensus
over several seconds/fixes to prevent spurious LSQ fixes pulling the plug on the
EKF prematurely. This also accords with the observation that once the EKF has
diverged it is unlikely to recover and so waiting a few seconds is not going to
change anything."
-
MOOS - Mission Orientated Operating Suite, 
Paul Michael Newman
Department of Ocean Engineering
Massachusetts Institute of Technology


"Another statistical technique that is useful with many data is known as jack-
knifing. Each datum is removed from the set, and the goodness of fit calculated to
the remaining data. If the goodness of fit without some datum d is substantially
lower, then d is removed as an outlier. "
Bottom of page: "6.  Currently TrenDx doesnot remove outliers. The techniques described here are straightforward
extensions."
Knowledge-Based Trend Detection 
and Diagnosis
by
Ira Joseph Haimowitz
June, 1994
 1994 Massachusetts Institute of Technology. All rights reserved.

Offline data smoothing?  See "An Integrated System for Underwhater Navigation and Tracking," Matos, Cruz, Pereira, 2000, section 4


 
 
online
books